
[back to homepage](https://viridyu.github.io/)

## /Dropbox/Research/paper review template/201803/20180323_1.pdf

### comments
> 1. semi-supervised segmentation of Med img is from GMM, construction, autoen (all traditional methods) to deep learning. For DL, parameters are alternatively updated.
> 2. what is self-ensembing methods? Is it that closed data points would have the same label?
> 3. From the transformation unequivariance of conv to design the scheme
> 4. time-dependent parameter for balancing supervised and unsupervised is good.
> 5. dropout and Gaussian noise are important.


## Densely Dilated Spatial Pooling Convolutional Network using benign loss functions for imbalanced volumetric prostate segmentation

### abstract

The high incidence rate of prostate disease poses a requirement in early detection for diagnosis. As one of the main imaging methods used for prostate cancer detection, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) has wide range of appearance and imbalance problems, making automated prostate segmentation fundamental but challenging. Here we propose a novel Densely Dilated Spatial Pooling Convolutional Network (DDSP ConNet) in **encoder-decoder structure**. It employs dense structure to combine dilated convolution and global pooling, thus supplies coarse segmentation results from encoder and decoder subnet and preserves more contextual information. To obtain richer hierarchical feature maps, residual long connection is furtherly adopted to fuse contexture features. Meanwhile, we adopt DSC loss and Jaccard loss functions to train our DDSP ConNet. We surprisingly found and proved that, in contrast to re-weighted cross entropy, **DSC loss and Jaccard loss** have a lot of benign properties in theory, including symmetry, continuity and differentiability about the parameters of network. Extensive experiments on the MICCAI PROMISE12 challenge dataset have been done to corroborate the effectiveness of our DDSP ConNet with DSC loss and Jaccard loss. Totally, our method achieves a score of 85.78 in the test dataset, outperforming most of other competitors.

### comments
> ddd
