
[back to homepage](https://viridyu.github.io/)

## Cross-modality image synthesis from unpaired data using CycleGAN Effects of gradient consistency loss and training data size

### abstract

CT is commonly used in orthopedic procedures. MRI is used along with CT to identify muscle structures and diagnose osteonecrosis due to its superior soft tissue contrast. However, MRI has poor contrast for bone structures. Clearly, it would be helpful if a corresponding CT were available, as bone boundaries are more clearly seen and CT has standardized (i.e., Hounsfield) units. Therefore, we aim at MR-to-CT synthesis. The CycleGAN was successfully applied to unpaired CT and MR images of the head, these images do not have as much variation of intensity pairs as do images in the pelvic region due to the presence of joints and muscles. In this paper, we extended the CycleGAN approach by adding the **gradient consistency loss to improve the accuracy at the boundaries**. We conducted two experiments. To evaluate image synthesis, we investigated dependency of image synthesis accuracy on 1) the number of training data and 2) the gradient consistency loss. **To demonstrate the applicability of our method, we also investigated a segmentation accuracy on synthesized images**.

### comments
> 1. Add a gradient consistency loss on the objective function of cycleGAN. The loss uses the normalized cross correlation.
> 2. All the cnn models in this paper is 2D.
> 3. During the evaluation, it applies 2D u-net as the segmentation network.
> 4. No comparision from literature. Not significant improvement in segmentation compared to w/o new added loss for small size of training data.
